[Music]
hey you ever wonder why flight
attendants always give us the same
instructions before takeoff and landing
some of them sounds strange and seem to
have no logic like why do we need to
open window shades or sit in the
darkness for flights at night pilots
have their own window to look through
and they can't even see if it's dark or
not in the passenger cabin so what gives
well trust me all of the instructions we
follow have a good explanation and
that's for our own security let's see
how it works
takeoff and landing are the most
dangerous moments of the whole flight
airplanes seldom crash in the air the
pilots can easily control the aircraft
at a high altitude or even in a
turbulent zone usually it's as simple as
ABC for them most crashes actually occur
when the plane is rising above the
airport or is touching back down on the
runway that's why it's so much attention
is paid to everything that's related to
the safety of the takeoff and landing
processes that being said there are two
reasons why the crew dims the lights
first it allows them to cut back on
energy the source of power on board the
airplane is an electric generator which
works at full blast during these two
crucial moments of the flight it takes
extra energy to control the wing
mechanisms such as the trailing edge
flaps when the plane takes off and to
control the brakes when the plane is
landing the lights are turned off so
that nothing interferes with the
generators work when it's under the most
stress and come on one can do without
bright lights for 20 minutes but there's
one more important reason the human eye
is built in a special way when the light
around us rapidly changes from very
bright to dark it takes some time for us
to get used to it say if you're in a
dark room and someone turns on the light
you'll have to narrow your eyes and
it'll be difficult to see anything for
10 to 20 seconds or we can all remember
coming into a dimly lit house after
playing outside in a bright white snow
and sunlight as a kid well we had snow
and not being able to see a thing until
our eyes adjusted to the change within a
few minutes we could make out the
contours of furniture or the dog
sleeping on the couch but you might
wonder what does that have to do with
the safety of a fly well the crew dims
the light in the cabin on a nighttime
flight so that the passengers eyes get
used to the outside darkness pilots say
that in case of an emergency if it's
necessary to leave the cabin immediately
people will do it faster if there's no
contrast between the light inside the
cabin and outside of it your eyes won't
need time to adjust to the little floor
lights that guide you to the exits
that's why using your gadgets with a
bright screen is also not allowed
imagine that you're taking a night
flight you take your seat and there's a
bright light in the cabin and it's pitch
dark outside you're reading a magazine
or surfing the internet the plane starts
taxing gain speed but then there's
strange noises crash boom bang and the
plane stops flight attendants start
evacuating passengers if there's a fire
the crew must help everyone out in one
and a half minutes after these 90
seconds it's next to impossible to leave
the plane safe and sound but you just
can't get off the plane there might be
fire near the exit that's why before
opening the door you have to make sure
there's nothing dangerous behind it
flames leaking fuel wreckage is blocking
the way etc the crew must analyze if
it's safe to evacuate people through
this exit or if they need to open the
ones on the other side if the lights are
on in this situation
they'll have to peer through the window
to try to figure it out remember it's
pitch dark outside and your eyes aren't
used to it if everyone had gotten used
to low-light conditions before the
accident happened you'd see about a
thousand times better compared to if you
were suddenly plunged into the darkness
that's why dimming the light is
necessary by the way pirates had their
own way to deal with the specifics of
our sight when they attack ships they
had to move quickly from the deck to the
hull and back and be ready to fight at
every moment the contrast between the
light on the deck
and the darkness inside the ship would
make them blind and helpless that's why
they used to wear an eyepatch which kept
one of their eyes in pitch darkness when
they went down to the basement they
would just lift it up and see perfectly
with that eye right away did you know
that or maybe you thought that all the
Pirates lost one of their eyes and
battle anyways passengers don't have eye
patches either and need to be patient
for their own good okay so what about
the other instructions passengers should
stay in their seats with seat belts
fastened the backs of their seats in a
vertical position and tray tables locked
it's clear that staying in your seed
with a fasten seat belt is crucial for
security but why does the seat back have
to be straight this one is easy
the vertical position of the back makes
it easier for you and other passengers
to get around in case of an emergency
this position is also safer for you in
the passenger behind you since the risk
of trauma to the head and neck is much
lower this way the same is true of tray
tables they can harm you if the plane
shakes unexpectedly and block the way if
you need to leave your seat immediately
flight attendants also always ask
passengers to keep window shades open
during takeoff and landing if you think
they want you to enjoy the nice views
outside the cabin and try again this
instruction is also necessary in case of
an emergency during taxiing takeoff or
landing first the crew and passengers
themselves might notice something
unusual happening to the plane like
flames or an engine explosion if the
shades are open pilots say that
passengers are curious they're perfect
for an extra set of eyes to see if
something goes wrong out there usually
passengers report stuff right away
second the ground services watch the
plane during takeoff and landing and
they can also see if assistance is
needed through the cabin windows in case
of an emergency every minute counts and
it's important that the ground services
know that something has gone wrong
right away plastic shades can also cause
different injuries in the case of a
crash landing the plastic can break into
sharp pieces which can cut your face
hands or other body parts another
necessary rule during flights is not
using mobile or other electronic devices
the truth is that are not really
dangerous for the airplane radio the
frequency used for onboard radio systems
is different from those our everyday
technical devices work on the route of
this instruction is in the past when the
navigation system wasn't protected well
enough from interference switched on
cellphones could break the signal when
the pilot talked to a flight operations
officer or make it difficult to watch
the plane during its flight navigational
devices could become scrambled and give
incorrect information both cellphones
and airplane systems have become more
advanced since that time most
researchers show that switched on
electronic devices don't influence
modern navigation so in 2014 this rule
was officially called off some airlines
still stick to it though mainly out of
habit it's just a question of time
before it's no longer used anywhere well
now you know that all the instructions
given by flight attendants have a
logical explanation and are meant for
your safety remember that when you don't
fasten your seat belt standing up trying
to get something from your carry-on or
close the window shape you're breaking
the security rules and making the flight
attendants come up to you and risk their
safety too now do you know any other
interesting facts about airplane
security let me know down in the
comments hey if you learned something
new today then give this video a like
and share it with a friend
but don't go flying off just yet we have
over 2,000 cool videos for you to check
out just click on this left or right
video and enjoy remember stay on the
bright side of life
[Music]